```
title: Configuration Settings
layout: guide
tags: ['guide']
pageOrder: 3
```

# OpenTV 5 Application Developer’s Guide

## Overview

### Audience

This document is intended for developers using OpenTV5 to create HTML
applications. The reader is expected to be familiar with the JavaScript
programming language, HTML, CSS, and general object-oriented software
programming principles.

### Custom vs. Standards

This documentation covers:

* Unique features of OpenTV5, and
* Deviations from standard HTML/JavaScript norms.

For general, non-specific information about HTML/JavaScript usage, refer
to one of many web resources, such as [*http://www.w3schools.com/*](http://www.w3schools.com/), for tutorials and specifications.

The *OpenTV 5 HTML Advanced Developer’s Guide* is also included in this
documentation set: refer to it for detailed advice about how to build
efficient applications using OpenTV WebKit, particularly techniques to
maximize performance on a hardware-limited embedded device such as a
set-top box.

OpenTV WebKit
-----

The main application development environment supported by OpenTV 5 is
OpenTV WebKit, a native WebKit­based browser and runtime environment.
OpenTV 5.1.4 has been updated to use OpenTV WebKit version 1.1.

The Ekioh browser previously provided for SVG-based development is now
deprecated, and described in [<span class="zlink">Appendix: Ekioh
Browser
\[Deprecated\]</span>](http://otv5docs/CCOM5.1.4/Support/Application%20Developer's%20Guide.htm#Racbabiecfj){.Link}.

### Supported Features

Standard features:

• HTML5
• CSS3
• Hardware-accelerated animations
• Video Playback using the standard `<video>` tag
• Web Inspector
• Cookies
• Same Origin Policy
• Web Worker
• Web Au
• Media Source Extensions (MSE)
• Encrypted Media Extensions (EME)

OpenTV 5-specific features:

• A JavaScript API (CCOM):  Allows applications to access the Middleware features of OpenTV5.
• Alerts: When using OpenTV WebKit, use <span class="Code">console.log</span>
instead of <span class="Code">alert</span> to output data to the console
log.
• Remote Controller keys
• Comprehensive debugging tools increasing debugging performance and
development efficiency.
• DSMCC (Digital storage media command and control)\
A protocol for simple data broadcasting and broadcast files systems.

### Running

To run an application on OpenTV WebKit:

• Prepare the html application package, edit the <span
class="Variable">*OTVAppMetadata.xml*</span> file, and set the <span
class="Code">&lt;APP\_TYPE&gt;</span> to "html" (<span
class="Code">&lt;APP\_TYPE&gt;html&lt;/APP\_TYPE&gt;</span>)

• Install and run the application using the Application Controller
(refer to the [<span class="zlink">Application
Installation</span>](http://otv5docs/CCOM5.1.4/Support/Application%20Developer's%20Guide.htm#Racbabdehbe){.Link}
section for details).

### Logging

OpenTV WebKit uses the OpenTV 5 <span class="Code">log</span> function
to save internal (and other types) of logs coming from various types of
JavaScript messages, including <span class="Code">alert</span>, <span
class="Code">console.log</span>, <span class="Code">confirm</span> and
<span class="Code">prompt</span>.

The OpenTV WebKit log format is:

STATUS : \[OtvWebKit\] \[XXXX\] code location : message

Where:

•<span class="Code"> STATUS : \[OtvWebKit\]\
</span>Is generated by the OTV log function automatically.

•<span class="Code"> XXXX\
</span>Is the log type, including "CONSOLE LOG", "ALERT", "CONFIRM" or
"PROMPT".

•<span class="Code"> code location\
</span>An optional JavaScript code location information, including the
file name and line number. This information is disabled by default, and
outputs only in verbose log mode. Refer to the <span
class="Title">*OpenTV 5 HTML Advanced Developer’s Guide*</span> for
details about how to modify the <span
class="Variable">*otvwebkit-config.xml*</span> file to enable the <span
class="Code">&lt;js-log-verbose&gt;</span> setting.

•<span class="Code"> message\
</span>A user-specified message in the JS API or Webkit message.

### Map a New Remote Control

To map a new remote control, follow this procedure:

1\. Edit lircd.conf, a file normally located at /etc/lirc/lircd.conf or
/etc/lircd.conf on the target file system.

2\. The lircd.conf file consists of pairs of string names and numerical
values.

3\. The lircd.conf string names are located in the “LIRC Key Name” column
of the key mapping table.

4\. HTML applications receive the numerical key values indicated by the
“OpenTV WebKit Key Codes” columns.

Commonly used remote control key codes:

**Key Name**

HTML app needs to read modifier (i.e. shift key) fo